So I say, it's modern, but I mean flex has
to be, in terms of when they standardize,
it has to be a decade old at this point.
Still feels new to me cuz I
started writing in tables, right?
I didn't start before float
was standardized, but
I started before float was everywhere.
I'm just gonna scratch
the surface on this,
Jen Kramer has a whole course that gets
into the depth and nuance of flex.
So if you're really into this and
you really like it,
wanna get further into the spatially
laying out things, I'd suggest going and
taking several of Jen's classes.
And there's a whole CSS learning path
on Frontend Masters that you can
check out as well.
So let's try this instead.
This was really easy to accomplish.
So I had this flex container, so
the thing to know about flex is you're
gonna set flex on the parent, right?
So I had this flex container here, and
if I wanna lay out things inside of that,
like I want these boxes to be
laid out in particular way,
I'm going to set flex on
the parent not the children.
I found that confusing
when I was starting out.
So I had the flex container here, and
noticed that display flex is on
the flex container, not on the boxes.
So you don't actually lay out yourself,
your parent lays you out.
So this is just default display flex
with nothing different about it.
It just lays them out like this
all in a row next to each other.
Same sort of thing, if it runs out
of space, it should just flow.
It will actually doesn't have flow over,
what it does is it actually
squishes things to make it fit.
So notice that these do have
set heights and widths, but
this display flow,
it's gonna be like, well,
I'm running out of space, so all of you
are gonna compress in an equal way.
And that's what happens with flex.
So they don't wrap, they squish.
Now, I'm just gonna show you a bunch of
fun things to do with flex cuz it's really
easy to do and
I find it kinda entertaining.
So notice, this is 1, 2, 3, right?
Same thing here in the code, 1, 2, 3.
But in here, it's laying out 1, 2, 3.
And all I have to do is roll reverse, and
it just reverses everything inside of it.
Just kind of fun.
What happens if you
wanna make it a column?
Same thing, flex-direction column, Okay?
So that's direction,
let's talk about justify-content.
And by the way, column reverse would
work as well, in case you're wondering.
So the 3 is on top.
So if I justify-content right,
notice that before these things were
going left to right here, right?
But if I say, justify-content
to the right or to flex-end or
wherever the end of the container is,
it moves everything to the right.
Why is it called flex-end
instead of right?
Cuz you have to think about this can
also go in the column direction as well.
So it goes to the end of the container
instead of the beginning of the container.
Now, if we did flex-direction column,
This isn't gonna look any different
because the end of the container is
where it stopped anyway.
So I would actually have to give this
a height of a thousand pixels for
us to see the difference.
So now, notice that it's
actually anchored to the bottom.
Whereas if I took this off,
it's anchored to the top.
Right now, the flex-container is
getting as big as the items are.
So it doesn't matter if it's at the
beginning or the end cuz it's the same.
Okay, center, notice that there's space
at the end of this, right, which is nice.
So you can do left center or flex-end.
Right work here, it does work.
But I would say, stick to flex-end
cuz that's a little bit more generic.
I just wanna take a second here and
express how hard it used
to be to center stuff.
It was so hard for so long, and
vertically centering things, which we're
about to show you how to do, used to
just take days out of my life, both in
terms of how much time I spend doing it
and all the stress that it caused me.
With flex, everything just got so
much easier.
Okay, so that's center,
that might be useful to you.
You can also do these fun things,
where you can do space-between,
where it'll equally space them out.
So notice, this goes all the way to
the left, all the way to the right, and
there's equal spacing here.
That's space-between.
Space-around.
So now notice that there's a little bit
of space, and so it'll give you a little
gutter on the beginning in the end
as well as on the beginning.
That's space-around, and
there's one more space-evenly.
So the way that this actually works
with space-around is the beginning and
the end will split a gutter, right?
So this is half of this.
If you do space-evenly,
Now everything beginning and
end will get its own one piece.
I tend to use space-around cuz I think
it's the most aesthetically pleasing, but
that's gonna be up to you.
And it depends what you're doing.
Align-items, this one's
super useful as well.
So let's say I wanna do flex-end.
So this will push everything
vertically down, right?
So now, all the stuff is aligned
on the bottom vertically as
opposed to being aligned at the start,
so fle-start.
So that's helpful.
Center.
So again, this what you're seeing here,
this vertically aligning something in
the middle of something is so hard to do.
And this is just me, like telling you that
I used to hike both up ways in the snow
when I went to school, but
this was used to be so hard.
And I want you to appreciate
how much easier it is now.
Okay, that's all, that's my whole spiel,
I'll stop being an old man.
If you want a good time,
go to Stack Overflow and
just see the decades of human life loss of
people trying to vertically center divs.
Okay, there's also this
fun one called stretch.
So even though these have heights,
if you give it the stretch and you have
to remove the height, that's also true.
Cuz I think if you, Do this,
it'll actually respect the height
first before it does the stretch.
But if you get rid of the height,
then you can actually have it
stretch the height of everything.
So this might be useful if you have
tiles that have text on them, and
you want them all to
be sized the same way,
despite the fact that they
have varying amounts of text.
This stretch can make it really easy to
make all these things the same height no
matter what.
You might wonder what inherit means.
It just means this box-1 might have
some height associated with it.
If I say inherit, it means ignore
what I previously said about it and
just do whatever the default is.
It's basically unsetting a CSS property.
Okay, So
here's another fun one of, like flex-grow.
So let's say I wanna do stuff like
proportional widths in some way.
I have this one that is flex-grow 1,
flex-grow 5.
So this 5 here is 5 times
bigger than this 1, and
this 10 one is 10 times
bigger than this 1.
And it kind of like proportions
out the sizing automatically.
So if I say here, instead of 10,
I put this at 100.
Now, this is substantially
larger than this one, right?
So it just proportions out that sizing for
5.
So now, these will be the same thing,
if I did 5, 5, and 5,
they'd all be taking exactly a third.
Now, why would you do it that way,
I don't know.
But you could,
it also just be the same to just say 1.
That's what flex-grow is.
Notice that the flex grow property
actually goes on the individual
classes themselves and
doesn't go on the grill part of it here.
That's not even valid CSS,
that should be like this.
That's funny.
Good job, Brian.
So notice all these things, I'm not
actually rewriting any of the CSS here.
Actually, let's refresh the page,
cuz I have changed a lot.
Now, I'm just combining all
the classes from the previous one and
not writing any new CSS.
If I do flex-container, ai-center,
reverse, and justify-content,
space-around, it's centering everything,
so it's all centered.
It's reversing as it goes 1,
2, 3 from right to left.
And then it's justifying
the content to space around, so
now there's little gutters
here on the right and left.
So combining all these various different
properties of flex, you can get some
really powerful layouts and get everything
laid out exactly how you expect to.
I use flex constantly.
I abused flex with how much I use it.
Then it makes laying out things just so
nice.
So same thing here, flex-container,
this is going a line items fe.
This is the problem with terrible
classnames, I was being clever.
Flex-end, that's what that stands for.
So it's all going to the right, and
then it's going in a column direction.
So that'll make everything move to
the right, and then it goes in a column.
So hopefully,
you're starting to see, okay,
if I combine this with this other way,
then I can get flex to bend to my will.
So I showed you a subset of
ways that flex can be done.
One, definitely check out Jen's class,
if you're interested in that.
There's a great CSS tricks article on it,
that I think is by far
their most popular article.
I almost always have it open because it
just has everything succinctly described.
So check out that if you
wanna know about that.
We can use flex-wrap to get things on
different lines and different pages and
have multiple lines of flex, there's
a lot of cool stuff you can do with it.
I actually used to use flex to basically
do a grid does before grid was available.
But then grid came out,
that became even easier using grid.